---
tags:
  - grant
---
The HSL Institute for Aging Research promotes the development of new research and new investigators by making our data available to outside investigators. The data for this grant will include demographic, clinical, functional, cognitive, gait, and cerebral blood flow data from all subjects, as well as banked blood, urine, and lymphocytes. These data will be stored at Hebrew SeniorLife’s Marcus Institute for Aging Research and the Mayo Clinic Translational Geroscience Network Biobank. All data will be stripped of primary identifiers and entered into a master database. All data collection procedures, variable definitions and codes, field locations, and frequencies will be documented in a separate file. We will make the data and associated documentation available to users only under a data-sharing agreement that provides for: 1) a commitment to using data only for research purposes and not to identify any particular participant; 2) a commitment to securing the data using appropriate computer technology; and 3) a commitment to destroying or returning the data after analyses are completed. The availability of data will be advertised over the Internet through websites maintained by Hebrew SeniorLife, Harvard Medical School, and Mayo Clinic. All investigators wishing to access the data will submit a brief proposal to Drs. Lipsitz or Kirkland describing their research project, data needs, regulatory approvals, and mechanisms to assure patient confidentiality. Upon affirmative review by the Dr. Lipsitz and co-investigators of this study, a data-sharing agreement will be signed and the requesting investigators will be given a working electronic data file and appropriate documentation.